# Python Sample Data Analysis
This simple project has an importer that pulls data from csv files and organizes the DB and a model file that creates a simple predictive model based on the data analysis.
#
To get this running locally on your computer, please run the following commands.

First, in the cmd terminal window, cd to the "python_sample_data_analysis" project folder that you cloned from github and then run the following command to set up the Python 3 virtual environment.
```
python3 -m venv env
```
Next, activate the new virtual environment by running the following command.
```
source env/bin/activate
```
Next, install libraries and requirements with PIP as follows.
```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
At this point, you should be ready to run the importer script to create and populate the sqlite3 database, by running the following command.
```
python importer.py test_project.db
```
The "test_project.db" database name can be anything you want. If you run the command exactly as above, you will see a new test_project.db file in the python_sample_data_analysis project folder. This DB will have all the grid load and location weather data populated in two data tables.

With the database created and populated with data, you can now test out the data analysis and modeling, by running the following sample command.
```
python model.py test_project.db KDAL TOTAL
```
The possible options for second location parameter after the test_project.db param are KDAL, KHOU and KSAT for Dallas, Houston and San Antonio respectively. The options for the third region parameter are COAST, EAST, FAR_WEST, NORTH, NORTH_C, SOUTHERN, SOUTH_C, WEST, and TOTAL. 
The model.py will out put a CSV file that will be named according to the parameters you run the command with. In the CSV file, you will see the date in the first column, the forecasted daily peak for each date in 2015 (this value is generated by the dynamically created forecast model) in the second column and the actual peak in the third column for comparison. 

(NOTE: If you want to edit the code of this project, you might need to adjust your project interpreter setting in whatever app you're using to view/edit the code of this project as it likely defaults to the system 2.7.x version if you are on a Mac.)

If that is the case, you need to change the project interpreter setting to point to the Python 3 installation in your virtual environment. If you followed the instructions above, the interpreter path you need to set in your code editor app will be as follows:
```
/<your_folder_path>/python_sample_data_analysis/env/bin/python
```
